Holding fragrant flower branches,
we offer them as a tribute
with sincere hearts,
bowing our heads towards the
Buddha. We remember the Buddha's life of cultivation, his old age, his pursuit of enlightenment, his unwavering devotion to finding a path to liberation from worldly suffering for all beings. The Buddha's compassion connects all beings,
creating a fertile field of merit and
happiness for all.
[Music]
This is the cremation site of the Buddha's physical body.
Here,
many beings made offerings when the
Buddha entered Nirvana, and when the Buddha
's physical body was cremated. All the sacred sites of the
Buddha are also
filled with many
deities and spirits. Therefore, when we
sincerely rejoice in the offerings
of all beings in all realms,
we rejoice in the preservation and protection of the
historical relics of the Buddha. Because
if these sacred sites were to disappear,
sentient beings would doubt the Buddha
greatly. Therefore, these sacred sites are
invaluable.  It is important to affirm to
all beings that the Buddha
appeared in this world, was born, renounced the world, attained enlightenment, preached the
Dharma,
and passed away. This is the value of
sacred sites, and therefore, as Buddhists,
we visit these sites with the
desire for the Buddha's teachings to endure in the world for a long time,
and for the sacred sites to be preserved for a
long time. Therefore, when we make
offerings to these sacred sites,
these offerings are divided into several parts.
First, we pay the salaries of those who
serve
here and pay taxes. That is, all the causes and
conditions for the sacred sites to exist—
do you understand, dear fellow practitioners?—all the offerings
generate merit because they have a
noble intention: to wish for the sacred
sites to endure for a long time, so that the
Dharma will endure for a long time, and the faith
of sentient beings will be strengthened.
Do you understand, dear fellow practitioners? Our Buddha
was a real person in this world,
not a fiction, not a legend,
but a truth—a truth
proven by the fact that he was the son of King
Suddhodana, recorded in history.  In Indian history, you
see, dear Dharma friends, that everyone is similar to
our King Tran Nhan Tong.
Our Buddhist Emperor Tran Nhan Tong
was real, and history cannot deny that.
That's why Buddhism accompanies the nation, and the true Dharma
of the Buddha and the Buddha himself are inseparable from the
existence of this earth. If
the sacred relics remain here,
do you understand? That's why we come
here to make offerings to build and
preserve these sacred relics. We make offerings
with enlightenment;
such offerings are the same as offerings to the Buddha, dear
Dharma friends. We make offerings with Bodhicitta,
hoping that the true Dharma will endure for a
long time in the world, hoping that
these sacred relics will remain forever. The relics were marked by King Ashoka, dear Dharma friends.
Gradually,
as society develops,
tourism increases, and this increased tourism
is a condition for the
relics to survive. That is our happiness.
Therefore, we ourselves very much
hope for the development of tourism. If tourism
does not develop, the people of India may
not be able to survive.  Respecting sacred sites,
we see that we have enlightenment, we
hope for tourism development, and we do this
with a Bodhi mind, different from when
we were not enlightened. Whenever
we do something to
develop tourism, we often think: "
I hope Vietnamese tourism
develops so that other countries
hear that Vietnam is developing thanks to
tourism, and they also develop
tourism, and that includes sacred sites,
right, dear fellow practitioners? So
this is a very great benefit. With
such enlightened aspirations,
we hope that the true Dharma of the Buddha will remain
in the world for a long time, that sacred sites will not
be destroyed, and that world tourism will
develop. That is truly how we use the
Dharma to beautify life and use life to
help the Dharma to remain stable." Respectfully, to our esteemed
Buddha Shakyamuni,
today, the third pilgrimage of
2022, our Buddhist group, the
National Golden Club of Ba
Vang Pagoda, is standing here, in this place of fragrant
incense, offering the golden body of the Tathagata.
Here, the world is devoid of the presence of the
Buddha.
Here, sentient beings suffer in the illusion of old age;
here, the Buddha entered Nirvana, leaving behind
relics, but the sun and
moon fell, and sentient beings were plunged into
darkness, yet happiness came to us.
[Music]
We still get to see the Buddha's body
through the relics, crystallized from the great compassion of the Buddha.
[Music]
Before us, in ancient times, was a
throne of
incense offered by gods, humans, and beings from all realms.
Because of our evil karma of
greed and delusion, we were unable to see the Buddha when he was alive. Today, we only have a branch of flowers, which is not precious. [Music] But the Buddha taught us that nothing is coarse or ugly. If our minds are noble and
pure, today
this branch of flowers is just a worldly thing,
but our hearts pray for the Buddha's blessings
so that we
may diligently practice and seek the supreme path.
For
us, this is a fresh branch of flowers,
this is a valuable branch of flowers.
We only offer them at the Four
Holy Sites of the
Buddha; material things are the most valuable
to us because material things will
bring countless and immeasurable causes and conditions.  For the benefit of
us and all future beings,
we humbly request the Buddha to bear witness
to our noble and
wondrous flower branch. We respectfully
ask the Buddha to bear witness and
accept our offerings.
Namo Buddha Shakyamuni.
We respectfully offer our prayers to the benevolent Father,
Buddha Shakyamuni. Today,
we, the Buddhist followers on the
fourth pilgrimage of 2022 of the Golden Chrysanthemum Club
practicing the Six Harmonies at Ba
Vang Pagoda, have come to this place, the stupa where the
golden body was preserved when the Tathagata entered Nirvana.
We offer flowers as a tribute.
We pray that all
Buddhist followers in the Golden Chrysanthemum Club practicing the Six Harmonies will receive
blessings, be diligent,
benefit, progress, and eventually achieve enlightenment. We humbly
request the benevolent Father, the Buddha Shakyamuni, to protect and guide us all. We
ask the benevolent Father to protect and
support all Buddhist followers, to
lead us into the ocean of the
Buddha's teachings, to enlighten us, to encourage
us to be diligent on the path to
Supreme Enlightenment.
[Music] (Referring to the
Buddha Shakyamuni's teachings from the past)
The Buddha's great compassion in entering
Nirvana manifested as relics, which were distributed everywhere to all beings,
allowing them to receive the blessings of veneration
and offerings to the Four Noble Truths. This fostered faith
and strengthened the belief of all his disciples, dispelling doubt among those of other faiths.
From this,
the
beings who were saved by the Buddha, the
monks and nuns of the
Buddha, today,
we, at this stupa,
have increased our faith in the
Buddha. We believe in the Buddha's power and authority.
We believe that the Buddha will always be
by our side,
supporting our efforts. We
cannot strive
without the
Buddha's support and authority. We humbly request the
Buddha to witness our prayers
and bless us. We
also wish to strive to attain
Supreme Enlightenment like the Buddha. We sincerely
offer flowers and make offerings, praying for
merit. Respectfully,
we respectfully address the benevolent Father, the Buddha
Shakyamuni.
Today, we, the second group of devotees,
have come to this place, the crematorium
where the Buddha relinquished his body in the
great
[music] state of
samadhi, using the fire of sacrificial burning to return his body to the world, leaving behind relics for us, the gods and the people of Kushinagara. That autumn, the gods and the people of Kushinagara used
countless incense,
flowers, and precious treasures
to offer to the
Buddha for the cremation ceremony of the
Buddha's body.
Today, we
have come
here to offer
these flowers and our hearts, our
boundless gratitude to the Buddha. We humbly
ask the benevolent Father to
witness our sincerity
and support
us so that we may practice the
Buddha's teachings.
We
vow that even as lay Buddhists, we will
diligently practice the Dharma that the
Buddha taught to lay Buddhists to
live a life of peace and happiness, and to strive towards the path of
liberation. We also
vow to diligently follow the path of
supreme enlightenment that the Buddha walked. The
Buddha has taught us. We humbly request the
Buddha's blessings and guidance.
We, the
esteemed disciples of the Buddha,
respectfully offer flowers as a tribute to the
Buddha Shakyamuni.
We respectfully address our
benevolent Father, the Buddha
Shakyamuni.
Today, the fifth
pilgrimage group in the 2022 Buddhist pilgrimage to the land of the Buddha, the
Golden Chrysanthemum Club of
Ba Vang Pagoda, is
present here at the crematorium. The compassion of the
Buddha flows forth, leaving behind in this world the relics of the Buddha's body.
The Buddha taught us
who makes offerings to whom. Seeing
the relics is seeing and offering to the
Buddha's body here. The Buddha's body, composed of the four elements,
has transformed into countless bodies, leaving behind in
this world to bring happiness to us. We respectfully
address the Buddha.
Every action of the Buddha is
for us.
Not a single thought of the Buddha leaves
us, the
Buddha's body,
formed from countless
thoughts of concern for us.  The
Buddha, with boundless compassion and love for all beings, has practiced boundless mindfulness for countless eons.
So that
when the Buddha is no longer in this world in his physical form,
his golden body will still be
present here.
No one in this world, no
one in the three thousand great universes,
has such great love for all beings
as the
Buddha, like the perfectly enlightened ones. He keeps
nothing for himself;
everything is for all
beings. Today,
here, his golden body transforms into countless forms
for all beings to
venerate.
We understand
that
this merit comes from the Buddha, who, for countless eons,
entered into all realms, enduring all
suffering in place of all beings to save them, performing this wondrous and
miraculous act of great compassion
to save
us. Today, here, we will engrave this
in our hearts.
Every time we venerate the relics,
we will remember this place, the
place where the relics emanated from the Buddha's compassionate heart.
We sincerely and wholeheartedly venerate them,
hoping that...  We contemplate that
today, as citizens of the city of
La Khi, when the Buddha passed away, and
all beings, gods, humans, and other creatures
offered offerings to the Buddha's body before
cremation, we pray that all merits be
dedicated to Supreme Enlightenment,
to all Buddhist
practitioners currently active in the
Golden Chrysanthemum Club practicing the Six Harmonies, and to all those who will join the Golden Chrysanthemum
Club to practice the
Dharma of Harmony and respect, so that they may all have the opportunity to see the
Buddha's golden body. We pray that
in all the four events of the
Buddha's birth, enlightenment,
transformation of the Dharma, entry into Nirvana,
cremation, and distribution of relics, we may all be present.
We may
all be happy in each of these karmic connections,
whether we are
practicing or will
be
protectors of those who are practicing or will practice.
We will forever be Dharma companions in the
immortal Dharma of the
Buddha. Today, we sincerely and wholeheartedly prostrate ourselves,
offer flowers, and
pray that auspicious karmic connections
will arise for all of
us. We also pray that the
Buddha's true Dharma will be proclaimed throughout the world.
Throughout the world, all beings
with whom we have a karmic connection are enlightened and become
Dharma companions with us. In the
ocean of Dharma
of the Buddhas and the Perfectly Enlightened Ones,
we also pray that all the
celestial beings and deities, all
beings who have protected the Dharma of the
Perfectly Enlightened Ones, will also
protect us so that we may
strive and achieve enlightenment. We
humbly beseech the Buddha to bear
witness to
us. We know
[music]
that after the renunciation of the Buddha's physical body, the
Buddha's power
remains
intact, causing the renunciation of the physical
body to
transform
into immeasurable and boundless relics.
We earnestly hope that at this moment,
the
Buddha is witnessing our renunciation, stroking
our heads, smiling, and saying, "
I am still
here, I am still here, guiding you step by step."
[music]
We vow to strive diligently and ask the
Buddha to guide and lead us step by step.
[music]
We respectfully beseech the Buddha to bless
us and accept this offering of
ours. A
fragrant flower branch.  We offer this fragrant flower to the
Buddha with sincere hearts, bowing our heads
in reverence.
We contemplate the Buddha's practice throughout countless lifetimes, cultivating the
Dharma, seeking
enlightenment, and seeking the
path to liberation from
suffering for all beings.
[Music] The
Buddha's compassion inspires faith and understanding, creating a field of
merit and happiness for all beings. [Music] [Music] [Music] [Music] We contemplate the Buddha's practice throughout countless lifetimes, cultivating the Dharma, creating a field of merit and happiness for all beings.
[Music] Oh
[Music]
[Music] With hands clasped, we quickly offer this fragrant flower to the Buddha with sincere hearts, bowing our heads in reverence. We contemplate the Buddha's practice throughout countless lifetimes, cultivating the Dharma, seeking enlightenment, and seeking the path to liberation from suffering for all beings.
Oh
[Music]
[Music] With
hands clasped, we offer this fragrant flower to the
Buddha with sincere hearts,
bowing our heads in reverence. We contemplate the
Buddha's practice throughout countless lifetimes, cultivating the Dharma, seeking enlightenment, and seeking the path to liberation from suffering for all beings. [Music] Oh [Music] [Music] With hands clasped, we offer this fragrant flower to the Buddha. We contemplate the Buddha's practice throughout countless lifetimes, cultivating the Dharma, seeking
enlightenment, and seeking the path to
liberation from
suffering for all beings. [Music]
The words of Mrs. Bo weeping for humanity and the heavens, stirring up blessings, prosperity, and
happiness for all beings
[music]
[music] [music]
Dear fellow practitioners, in
Buddhist scriptures it is said that whoever uses diamonds, gold, silver, agate, pearls, and
all kinds of precious jewels
to cast Buddha statues, to engrave relics, to engrave relics
in stupas—that is, to create
this Buddha statue, to build
this temple, to create places to enshrine the relics of the Buddha—
all of these things generate
great merit and blessings.
This merit and blessings adorn
our bodies, meaning we have
beautiful appearance, dignified bearing, and longevity.
Then, we practice and attain liberation, which is very
beneficial. This is us gilding with gold
with an enlightened mind. We gilde with gold,
we pray that what the
Buddha taught us will be achieved.
We have beauty,
wealth, longevity, and
wisdom.
Beauty, wealth, and longevity support
us on the path of practice.
Therefore, our Buddha is a being of perfect merit and wisdom,
who has made offerings for countless lifetimes.  The
amount of offerings the Buddha made to the stupa containing his relics, the offerings to the
Buddha statue, the offerings he made were so great that
he received perfect blessings.
Therefore, today
we are offering gold to honor the
cremation stupa of the Buddha's body. This is
called adorning our hearts,
adorning the Buddha right in
our own hearts. We are truly
joyful to adorn our
hearts with gold, to adorn our hearts with sincere
faith in the Buddha, a sincere and enlightened heart in the true
Dharma.
And all those blessings will
flow from this act, and we will be the
ones to receive them. It is called offering
in enlightenment. We are afraid, but we have
faith in the true Dharma and
enlightenment, that's why we practice this.
We don't think that the gold will
go somewhere; it goes into
our hearts, creating
karmic connections so that in many lifetimes
we will become a Bodhisattva in
some lifetime or some Buddha or monk.
We will have enough wealth to offer to the esteemed
Buddhas clearly mentioned above.
Whatever we offer to the Buddha,
even if we don't ask for wealth, it will
arise spontaneously. We don't need to ask for it; it will
arise on its own. What we ask for is the
supreme enlightenment. If we offer
with the heart seeking the supreme enlightenment,
wealth will arise even more,
but it will not be lost.
Offering to the Three Jewels will generate merit that lasts
for many lifetimes. It will not be washed away by water or
fire, will not be destroyed by evil spirits, and will not be
taken away by illness or disease. That is,
it will be preserved and bring happiness to
us and the community. Therefore, with
such an enlightened mind, we respectfully gild the tea
stupa with gold.
[Music]
Namo Tathagata, the worthy offering, the perfect and
virtuous being, the worldly liberator, the supreme being, the chief
minister, the teacher of gods and humans, the
Buddha, the
World Honored One. We respectfully offer gold to the esteemed
Buddha, the worthy offering, the boundless merit of
all
beings.
Today, we respectfully gild the tea stupa with gold.
The golden body of the
Venerable Buddha, with its 32 auspicious marks and 80 beautiful features, is the
crystallization of immeasurable merit and
boundless
Bodhi vows.
We now offer this golden body to the Venerable Buddha, the perfect and
virtuous form, and
we pray that we may
diligently practice the Bodhi virtues,
adorn
our bodies, and soon attain the full 32 auspicious marks and 80
beautiful features, and achieve perfect enlightenment. May
this merit be bestowed
upon all beings, and may the true
Dharma of the Buddha be
proclaimed to all, and may all sentient beings develop the karmic
conditions to enter the immortal Dharma, and
awaken the Bodhi Mind as
we have offered this, and may
we, along with countless sentient beings, attain Supreme Enlightenment.
We sincerely and wholeheartedly prostrate and offer this
golden stupa, the cremation of the Venerable Buddha,
holding a fragrant flower branch in his hand.
With sincere hearts,
we bow our heads towards the Venerable Buddha, contemplating the
Buddha's age and the path to enlightenment,
seeking the true
Dharma.  To escape the suffering of the present moment,
[music] we, the
Buddha Shakyamuni, at
this moment we respectfully recite the
noble name that created the golden
body of the Buddha. The immeasurable merit
created the golden body of the
Buddha, and this place is where the
Buddha's golden body is returned, and relics are released.
From the merits of creating
these ten names, we sincerely and wholeheartedly praise and recite the
name of the Buddha. Namo Tathagata, the Tathagata, the Perfectly Enlightened One, the Perfectly Praised One, the Perfectly Meditated One, the
Worldly One, the Supreme Being, the Controller, the Master of Gods and Humans, the
Buddha. Namo Tathagata, the
Perfectly Enlightened One, the Perfectly Praised One, the
Worldly One, the Supreme Being, the Controller, the Master of Gods and Humans, the
Buddha.
We dedicate all the merits
from this life to countless eons that
we have created
to Supreme Enlightenment, dedicating them to the
arising of suitable causes and conditions so that
we may practice virtuous deeds.
As we have heard, practicing the
Bodhisattva path, if it manifests as a king, it
manifests as a king to save beings; if it manifests as an official, it
manifests as an official to save beings; if it manifests as a layperson, it manifests as a layperson to save beings; if it
manifests as a
celestial being, a dragon, a yaksha, or a rakshasa to save countless beings, it manifests as a
celestial being, a dragon, a
yaksha, or a rakshasa to save countless beings. We have
created all the merits we have accumulated, and we
dedicate them all to the Supreme Bodhi Dharma.
We humbly beseech the
Buddhas to bear witness and protect us, to bless the Devas, to
rejoice, to bring joy to the Dharma Protectors, and to
benefit all beings in all realms, to create a Bodhi
Dharma connection with us, to practice the Bodhi path, and to seek the
path of impermanence. We sincerely and wholeheartedly bow and dedicate our merits.
[Music]
Dear assembly, we must achieve
the mind of self-reliance in Bodhi. May the Buddha grant us his blessings.
We
cannot receive His blessings unless we
wholeheartedly dedicate ourselves to practicing the Bodhisattva path. Therefore, however we wholeheartedly dedicate ourselves, the
Buddhas, Bodhisattvas,
Holy Sangha, Deities, and Dharma Protectors will protect
us. If we do not
wholeheartedly dedicate ourselves, even if there were countless Buddhas
here, they would be powerless to protect us.
Therefore, we must have a mind, we must make a vow,
and
we must dedicate ourselves. The act of dedicating
ourselves to seeking Supreme Enlightenment is for those with
wisdom, that is, those who are enlightened, who clearly
understand the outcome of their actions, who
know what they will do for
sentient beings, and where that action will lead them. This is
called a person with complete wisdom and enlightenment regarding the
Bodhisattva vow and the aspiration to achieve
Supreme Enlightenment. Above all,
we must study Buddhist teachings and
practice diligently so that the Bodhisattva vow
permeates our minds, becoming a single aspiration.
We will have no other aspiration
besides the aspiration to seek Supreme Enlightenment. When
the aspiration to seek Supreme Enlightenment
is complete and fulfilled, it will
arise.  In future lives, in every life
we ​​will achieve
fame and success for all beings.
We should remember that fame will
come to us if we do not seek it; if we seek it, we will not
attain it, and that will lead to suffering and affliction.
Therefore, when we seek Supreme Enlightenment,
our present virtuous aspirations
will be fulfilled, and fulfilled in a pure and undefiled way,
without
transgression or suffering. So, for
those who are enlightened on the path to enlightenment, they
completely end suffering and
affliction. Even before achieving Supreme Enlightenment, the
Buddhas have entered many
realms without any affliction,
only diligence and joy, without any affliction.
If
anyone thinks that
seeking Supreme Enlightenment in countless lifetimes will bring
great suffering, then there is absolutely no suffering. Only
diligence, no suffering. We
must clearly understand this so that when we seek
Supreme Enlightenment, our minds will no longer be hindered, no longer hesitant, no longer thinking that we
will not
achieve Supreme Enlightenment, and no longer doubting that
we will not be able to practice it.  The
Bodhisattva practice in this lifetime, the mind illuminated by the Han-style contemplation,
sees that we have only just arrived here, and
nothing we have begun to achieve yet has been accomplished. Nothing
we have begun to achieve yet has encountered any
obstacles, no obstacles that we
cannot overcome. Therefore, the mind illuminated
by the Han-style contemplation, from true and clear understanding,
urges all esteemed fellow practitioners to bravely awaken the
Bodhi Mind, to
practice together to achieve Supreme Bodhi,
benefiting countless sentient beings. Just as the
Buddhas have benefited sentient beings,
we must benefit sentient beings
in the same way. If we do not see
this life of desire as happiness, then we will
achieve the ideal. Wishing all esteemed fellow practitioners
diligence and joy. Namo Han-style Bodhisattva, Maha-
sattva.
[Music]
K